Good morning.
Welcome to Session 513,
System-Wide Previews with Quick Look.
My name is Jean-Pierre Ciudaad,
and I'm a member of the
Quick Look engineering team.
So what we're going to talk
about today is a new technology
in Leopard called Quick Look.
We're going to see what
Quick Look really is,
we're going to see how it works,
and how you can take advantage
of it in your applications.
So let's start with what is Quick Look.
So Quick Look is a technology that helps
the users identify their documents.
The way we do this is by providing
thumbnails and icons of all the
different document types in the system,
and also by providing
previews of the documents.
So those previews appear in
the Quick Look preview panel,
and they can be pictures,
they can be movies, they can be PDFs,
or they can be text or HTML documents.
So Quick Look is essentially
about navigation.
It's not about editing documents.
If the user wants to edit his document,
he has to open the application
that is used to edit that
document and not use Quick Look.
So strictly about navigation.
So you're probably all familiar
with Quick Look already if
you've been using Leopard.
Finder, starting with Leopard,
has been using Quick Look extensively.
In fact, prior to Leopard,
Most Finder windows were
displaying generic icons.
In Leopard, you started seeing
thumbnails of the documents,
sorry, icons of the documents,
I should say.
But the regular icon mode in Finder is
not the only place that uses Quick Look.
Quick Look is also
used in CoverFlow View,
which displays thumbnails,
or also when you press the
space bar on a document,
you actually can see the
Quick Look preview panel that
shows you the content of the file.
Other applications in
Leopard also use Quick Look.
Mail, iCal,
both use Quick Look to actually
display previews of the attachments.
In addition to that,
iChat also uses Quick Look.
In Leopard, we introduced iChat Theater,
and iChat Theater actually uses
Quick Look to obtain the content of the
document and send it across the wire.
So essentially there,
if you provide a Quick Look plugin
for your document types,
you will enable your
document for iChat Theater.
That's all you will have to do.
And of course,
we hope that for Snow Leopard,
Quick Look will be in
your application as well.
And that's what we're
going to talk about.
So how does it work?
Well, Quick Look is really divided
into two functional parts.
The first part is the
producer side of Quick Look,
which tells Quick Look how
to read a file.
The second part is the consumer side,
which displays the content of the file
or the thumbnail in your application.
So let's look a little bit
more at the producer side.
The producer side of
Quick Look translates
complex document types,
not into French,
but into a set of known formats that
Quick Look knows how to display.
So these formats can be HTML, PDF, text,
images, or movies.
The way this works is by using plugins
that developers like you provide,
and those plugins know
how to read the file.
They are loaded on demand
and executed on demand.
In order to write a plugin,
you can just use an Xcode template
that is provided in Leopard.
On the consumer side of Quick Look,
you can use the consumer side
to display thumbnails and
icons within your application.
You can also, starting in still Leopard,
you can open the Quick Look preview
panel and show previews of documents.
The way you do this is by
using the Quartz framework,
and we're going to go into
more details for that.
So what are your options?
Your options are simple.
You can either be a producer,
or you can just be a consumer,
or you can be both.
What we would prefer is that,
first and foremost,
you become a producer.
If you own the document types,
it is important that you write
a Quick Look plugin so that your
icons and your thumbnails will be
available everywhere in the system.
It will be available system-wide
everywhere that uses Quick Look.
If you want to become a consumer,
you will be able to display icons
and thumbnails of all document
types within your application.
So now to tell us more and more details
how to become a Quick Look producer,
I'd like to introduce
Quick Look superstar,
Julien Jalon.
Julien Jaalon: Thank you, Jean-Pierre.
Good morning.
So we'll first talk about the
producer side of Quick Look,
which is a very important
part of Quick Look,
because Quick Look's goal is really
to display any kind of document.
And this includes your own document.
And to do that, you have to become a
producer for Quick Look.
And you can do that by
providing a Quick Look plugin.
And we'll see how to write
a Quick Look plugin today.
And you will see that it's quite simple.
Before going into more details,
you have to understand that your plugin
will be hosted in a small process that
will act as a sandbox to the consumer.
This means that your plugin will
have to play by the process rules,
which means it has to be universal.
Starting with no Leopard,
it has to be 64-bit,
and also you won't have
access to garbage collection.
So, let's see the different key points
of writing a Quick Look plugin.
You have basically three
things to remember.
The first thing is that Quick Look should
be able to identify your document type.
The second thing is that you
have to make sure Quick Look is
able to find your plugin.
And the third point is, of course,
to do the actual job,
translate your document to
something Quick Look understands.
So, first point, make sure Quick Look can
identify your document.
And in fact,
it's not specific to Quick Look.
It's something that has to be
done for all kind of stuff,
like Spotlight,
and even for opening your document
with the proper application.
So to do that,
you have to make sure your application
registers your document type to
the system-wide typing database,
which is Launch Services.
You do that in the
application's Info.plist.
What you have to declare is
what we call a type identifier,
which will be the reference
to your document type.
In your Info.plist file,
you will also declare
how to identify the file,
what is the icon of the file,
the generic icon, and stuff like that.
As a side note, it's possible to ship a
Quick Look plugin standalone,
without your application.
So if you want to do that,
you might have to declare the
document type directly in the plugin.
And you can do that
For more information,
I really recommend that you get
a look at the Xcode documentation
about uniform type identifiers.
OK, second point,
Quick Look has to find your plugin.
And to do that,
you have to make sure your
plugin is in a well-known place.
Basically,
you want to include your plugin directly
in your application's bundle in contents,
library, Quick Look.
And this is a great way
to distribute your plugin,
because you don't have to
care about installation.
Your application is totally
standalone for the user.
It does not have to see that
there are plugins inside it.
But if you plan to ship your plugin
standalone without the application,
you can install it in /library/quicklook,
and Quick Look will be able to
use it as a system-wide plugin.
The second thing, of course,
is to tell Quick Look that your
plugin is handling your document type.
And you do that by declaring the
binding in the plugin Info.plist.
So you will use the document
identifier you declared in your
application in your plugins Info.plist.
The third point, of course,
is doing the real job,
to write some code to
translate your document.
And to do that, it's fairly simple.
The idea is, in fact, Quick Look,
when the consumer asks for
a preview or a thumbnail,
Quick Look creates a small object
that represents the request,
calls some specific
callback in your plugin,
providing the request itself,
the file URL to the document
it has to thumbnail or preview,
and some additional options.
And we provide a small set
of API or CPI that are very,
very simple.
It's a quick look framework
that gives you the opportunity
to answer the request.
So, let's go into more detail.
Basically,
your plugin has to do two things.
Thumbnail previews.
So, you have to implement two callbacks.
The first one, this one,
is a generate thumbnail callback.
Fairly simple.
You have a handle to the request.
It's a file URL to the document.
And some additional options.
Generally, you don't have to care
about these options because
Quick Look will handle them itself.
But it might be useful for you
to decide what to put in your
thumbnail depending on the options.
But generally, you don't have to care.
To answer the request,
the API is fairly simple.
The first idea is to provide an image,
a CG image, a core graphics image.
This is the first API.
Or you can provide JPEG or
PNG data if you have that,
or any kind of
ImageIO-supported image format.
And if you want to,
you can ask Quick Look to create
a Core Graphics context so you can
use all the Core Graphics API to
draw your thumbnail on the fly.
You create a context,
use the Core Graphics API,
and flash the context,
and Quick Look will do all the rest.
The Generate Preview callback is pretty
similar to the thumbnail callback.
You have the request, the file URL,
some options.
Generally,
you don't have to care about the options,
but we never know.
So the goal of the preview callback
is to translate your document to
some data Quick Look understands,
which means HTML, movie, text, images,
PDF.
To do that, we have a very simple API.
You just have to give
Quick Look the data.
But for the sake of simplicity,
we also include a very simple API so
you can create a core graphics context,
again, similarly to the thumbnail,
so you can draw your preview on the fly.
And if you plan to produce
a multi-page preview,
you can also create a
PDF context and use begin page,
end page to create several
pages for your preview.
So, this was a theory,
but we will do a small demo
just to see how simple it is.
Let's switch to the demo machine, please.
Okay, we'll do a very,
very simple Quick Look plugin.
And since we are in a
developer conference,
we will do a plugin for
developer kind of file.
So we'll do that for
Xcode projects files.
So,
The idea is to start with a new project,
and the good thing is that we
provide with Xcode a template
to write a Quick Look plugin.
So you don't have to care
about most of the things.
So we create a new project.
So the template, in fact,
does almost all the work for you.
It creates all the necessary files
linked to the appropriate frameworks.
And in fact,
you have three things to complete.
The first one is the Info.plist part.
I would say it's paperwork.
The second thing is the
generate thumbnail callback.
And the third thing is the
generate preview callback.
So let's start with the paperwork.
So this is the Info.plist.
It describes a lot of
things about your plugin.
The first thing to do is
to give your plugin an ID.
So since I'm working for Apple,
I will call it
com.apple.qlgenerator.xcode.
And the second thing is to bind my
plugin with the appropriate file type.
And the type identifier for Xcode
project file is com.apple.xcode.project.
And you can see that there are
other kind of stuff you can fill.
All this stuff is quite
unnecessary for you.
You just keep it like this.
But you have some specific
Quick Look properties here that
gives Quick Look some hints
on how to use your plugin.
Basically,
you can specify a hint about your
preview size or thumbnail size.
But you can also declare to
Quick Look what your thread awareness is,
you know,
if you are more or less thread safe,
if you have to run in a main
thread or stuff like that.
It depends on the framework you use,
on your code.
That's the kind of stuff you
can specify to Quick Look.
So, in fact,
that's all for the paperwork.
What we'll do now is we will try to
implement a Generate Preview callback,
and you will see it's fairly simple.
To do that, I will start, sorry, by...
I have a small code that parses
Xcode project files and translates
them to the appropriate data.
In fact, it might be the most difficult
part because you know how
to parse your documents,
you know how to convert them.
That's what I have here.
So I will add that to my project.
Voila.
And as you can see,
this is a small code that uses
foundation code and Objective-C.
And you can do that in
a Quick Look plugin.
You can use foundation, AppKit,
or a lot of high-level frameworks.
So since we are using foundation,
we will add foundation
to the linked frameworks.
Okay.
So what is this code?
This code is very simple.
It just takes the file URL to a project
file and converts it to some very,
very simple plain text with
a list of all the files that
are related to the project.
So this is a very,
very basic plugin I am doing here.
Of course, afterwards,
we can refine it and make
something look much better.
But that's not the purpose
of my presentation here.
So let's implement the
generate preview callback.
So you have the request here,
the file URL,
the type identifier of the file,
and some options.
And our goal is to convert the file
to plain text data in this case.
So we'll use-- oh,
I have to include my file first.
We'll use our function.
This function converts the
file to plain text data,
UTF-8 encoded.
And then we just have to give
the answer to the request.
So first part,
this is the most basic API to
answer a preview request.
You specify the preview request itself,
the translated data,
the type of the translated data.
In this case, it's UTF-8.
Plain Text.
And some additional properties.
In properties, you can specify a lot of
metadata for your preview,
like your real preview size
and some other kind of stuff.
And basically, that's all.
Your preview callback is written.
But the most important
part is now to test it.
And of course,
if you remember the three key points,
you will have to make sure the type
is correctly registered to launch
services and make sure your plugin
is installed in the correct place.
But during development,
it's quite annoying to do all of that.
And to do all of that,
each time you change some code.
So that's why we provide
a tool to do that,
which is named QL Manage.
QL Manage is really your helper
to develop your plugins because it
can execute your plugin directly.
And also you can bypass
all the paperwork,
bypass the type checking,
bypass the plugin discovery.
And that's what we will use now.
Since it's a...
It's a tool that can execute your plugin.
It's a very, very good candidate for
custom executable in Xcode.
That's what we'll add now.
You add a custom executable QLManage.
And with QL Manage, you can specify a lot
of different arguments.
The first one is to ask QL Manage
to bypass all the type checking,
so you don't have to care about
that during the development phase.
The second parameter is to ask QNManage
to bypass the plugin discovery,
so you don't have to care
about installing your plugin.
The third parameter is to ask
QL Manage to do a preview.
So the -p is asking
And we'll do a preview
for Xcode project file,
which is the reason we
are writing this plugin.
And we just have to run it, build it,
and run it.
Oh, okay, so I forgot one thing, is that,
as I mentioned, you know,
your plugin has to be
64-bit now in Snow Leopard.
Since it's a 64-bit machine,
I have to build my plugin 64-bit.
That's what I will do right now.
Let's do that again.
And voila.
This is the basic preview
of an Xcode project file.
Very, very simple.
Just the list of files in the project
that afterwards you can really provide
something much better and much nicer.
OK, this was the preview.
Let's do the thumbnail.
So when you have to implement
your thumbnail callback,
you generally face a big problem.
What do I put in my thumbnail?
Generally, we really,
really recommend that you, in fact,
just provide the content
of your document,
focus on the content of your
document in your thumbnail.
So we'll do something very, very simple.
We will use the same input
for the thumbnail than what
we use for the preview.
Just use the same text and display
it in the small image or thumbnail,
and that will be our
Xcode project thumbnail.
So to do that, it's fairly simple.
I will call the same exact function to
translate my project to plain text data.
I have to create a core graphics
context and use the text
drawing API to draw this text.
It's quite tedious, you know.
So that's why in Snow Leopard we are
adding a very convenient function that
will do all this kind of stuff for you.
If you can produce a preview,
it's very easy to produce a thumbnail
in Snow Leopard using this function.
It might not be exactly what you want,
but for a lot of people it can
be really the only thing to do.
If you can produce a preview,
you can ask Quick Look to produce
the thumbnail the same way.
So that's what we'll use here.
You will see that it's really,
really similar to the
Generate Preview Callback.
[Transcript missing]
And instead of using Preview Request API,
we use Thumbnail Request API,
and we have this very convenient
Function that gets the same
exact input as the preview API,
but produce thumbnail instead.
So you provide the data,
the type of the data,
And some additional properties.
Here, nothing.
And that's all.
Just as a reminder,
one thing is that this
API is very convenient,
but it has a little drawback.
You know, since it is using some
Fairly high-level drawing API,
it has to be run in the main thread.
It's not a pure thread-safe function.
And you can tell Quick Look your
plugin is not totally thread-safe.
This is what we saw just
before in the Info.plist.
We'll have to tell Quick Look, okay,
my plugin is great,
but I have to make sure it
runs in the main thread.
And this is what you can
specify here with the needs to
be run in main thread property.
So we'll check that.
And our plugin is ready.
But what we'll do is test it now.
Instead of -p,
we'll use -t to produce a thumbnail.
Okay, build and go.
And we have our thumbnail now.
It's pretty small,
so we can change some of the property.
Also, it's quite flat,
so we will add some icon decoration.
Dash I tells Quick Look to
produce a nice icon,
and we can also make
the thumbnail bigger.
And voila,
we have our icon for Xcode project files.
So it's fairly simple.
But if you look at the icon,
you will tell me, well,
it really looks like a
plain text document file.
And you will be right.
And what you can do in SnowLeoPard
now is to add some additional
decoration to your icon.
What we don't want you to do
is to introduce the decoration
directly in the thumbnail.
So that's why we're adding this
API for you to provide additional
information about your icon,
but alongside the thumbnail so we
can really decorate the thumbnail
content and the decoration itself.
So in SnowLeoPard,
you can add some badging to the icon.
That's what we'll do right now.
It's very, very simple.
If you do remember, in the API,
in the Quick Look API,
there is always... last
parameters in the answer API,
which is the properties parameter.
And the properties can specify
additional information on the
thumbnail or icon you are producing.
And that's what we'll use now.
And you can ask Quick Look.
So I have some here.
Very simple.
What you have to do is just to create
a dictionary telling Quick Look to
use a small extension badging.
And use this dictionary
as a thumbnail properties.
And so to make sure we are not leaking,
I'm
Rolling the dictionary.
And if we run it again,
you see that you have
the extension here now.
But you might want to go even further.
You might want to include something
more specific to your brand,
like an image.
And you can do that in SnowLeopard.
It's really, really,
really similar to the extension stuff.
Instead of providing a text string,
you provide an image.
So let's do that.
I have a small image here
I want to add to my icon.
And instead of providing text,
we'll provide an image here.
So this is, in fact,
the most difficult part of this
code is to load the image itself,
you know.
But it's fairly simple.
Afterward,
it's very similar to the extension.
You provide a badge image
and the image itself,
and you use the properties as
the thumbnail properties here.
Run it, and there you are.
Wow, yeah, it's not very nice.
You know, I'm not a designer myself,
but I'm sure you can do
much better than that.
And that's it.
You have your icon.
Thank you.
So you can see it's very simple.
Let's go back to the slide.
So you can see it's very simple
to write a Quick Look plugin.
But if there is something to remember,
it's simple,
and you have a very convenient tool
to debug and develop your plugin.
And this tool is QLManage.
QLManage is really the
Swiss army knife of Quick Look.
It can execute your plugin
directly without all the
complex Quick Look engines,
the process, the daemon process,
the problem you have to use
to go in Finder to verify that
your icons are looking great.
It can do a lot of stuff.
In particular,
it can bypass all the paperwork,
the typing, the installation.
That's something you don't want to
do while you are writing your code.
You can do a lot of new
stuff in Snow Leopard.
We try to enhance this tool a lot.
It can help you test your performance
and do a lot of other kind of testing,
like try your icons in different sizes.
And the last important
thing that Quick Look,
QL Manage is doing is, in fact,
it can help you reset the cache.
Because in Snow Leopard,
for performance reasons,
we're adding several levels of cache
in Quick Look on the consumer side
and on disk and stuff like that.
You don't have to care about it.
In fact, it's very good for the user,
but it might be very annoying
for you developers because,
of course, once we have cached something,
you want to reset the cache,
and QL Manage helps you do that.
For more information, there is a manual
included with QL Manage.
Let's go take a look at that.
It's very simple, you will see.
One important thing,
and I know that a lot of people are
doing that and it's not a good idea,
QN Manage is only a debugging tool.
You should not use QN Manage
as a consumer to display
generally the preview panel.
It's really not what you want to do.
So it's simple to write
a Quick Look plugin.
But in fact,
you might face some problems.
And in general,
you might face two problems.
The first one is performances.
You have to make sure your plugin
is as efficient as possible.
In fact, some things should be extremely
fast because your thumbnails will be
displayed with a lot of other thumbnails,
and your plugin should not
harm the computer resources.
We are trying to be very efficient,
but if your plugin is taking too much
time or taking too much resources,
it might end up being
very bad for the user.
So you have to find the right balance
between quality and performance.
And to do that, really,
you might have to remove some details.
You know, this is just a thumbnail.
And if you are designing
your file format right now,
we really encourage that you include
in your file format a JPEG data or
PNG data with a pre-generated thumbnail.
And if you do that,
you won't have to pass the whole
document to produce a thumbnail.
You will just have to get the
data directly from your file
and send it back to Quick Look.
On the other hand,
previews need to be fast, too.
Maybe not as fast, but still fast.
This is very important for
the Quick Look experience.
Quick Look experience
is about to be quick.
And the user,
when the user opens the Quick Look panel,
he does not want to see
the loading placeholder.
He really wants the preview
to appear immediately.
So you have to make sure your
preview callback is very,
very fast, too.
This means that you will also
have to find the right balance
between details and speed.
And what we recommend, for example,
if you are producing
a multi-page document,
a multi-page preview from your
document really caps your number
of pages to a small number.
And in fact, with Snow Leopard,
we are introducing a new API so
you can provide the pages later.
The second problem you
might face is design.
And you saw in my demonstration
that I am not a very good designer,
and that generally is
a problem you will see.
And the very important thing to
remember is just focus on the content.
Thumbnail and previews is just
about displaying the content.
In fact, it's really only
Quick Look responsibility to
add the extra decoration to
your thumbnails and previews.
In particular, for thumbnail,
this is Quick Look that does the
curled-up corner and stuff like that.
So only focus on the content.
Don't add any more bells and
whistles inside your thumbnails.
We are providing some additional
APIs for you to customize your
icon if you really want to,
but don't do that inside your thumbnail.
The same thing applies for previews.
You should not assume that your
preview will only be displayed
in the Quick Look preview panel.
And in fact, it does not.
It's operating in the cover flow.
You know, you can scrub through pages.
It's also used in the Finder info
panel and in the column view,
too.
And it might be used in very
different places afterwards.
So don't assume anything on the context.
Just focus on the content.
So let's summarize how to
write a Quick Look plugin,
because this is the most
important thing for this part.
It's very, very simple.
You start from a Nixcode template,
and you fill in the holes.
Do the paperwork in Info.plist.
Implement your callback.
Then test and debug with QL Manage.
And finally--
You just have to install
it in the right place.
Inside your application,
if you plan to include directly
your plugin in your application,
or if you want to have it standalone,
install it in /library/quicklook.
So this was the producer
side of Quick Look.
But there is another side of Quick Look,
the consumer side.
And that might be very
interesting for you.
And for that,
I am calling Julien Robert on stage.
Thank you, Julien.
So now that you've seen
how to write plugins,
we will switch to the
other side of Quick Look,
that is displaying thumbnails
and previews in your application.
So let's first focus on thumbnails.
Thumbnails are simply static
bitmap images that can come with
or without icon decorations.
So when they are without
icon decorations,
we call them flat thumbnails,
and this gives the user a quick overview
of the content of their documents.
Icons give you the same information
about the content of the document,
but also highlights the
file aspect of the document.
So for instance,
you can see the curled corner or
the glossy effect on these icons.
So let's see a little bit more in
details how to use these thumbnails.
Flat thumbnails do scale well,
so you can use them in high resolutions.
So they are well-suited
to be used in inspector,
preview pens,
But also in other fancier
views like 3D views,
which is an example of CoverFlow,
or other views that you can imagine.
Icons are more likely to
be used in views that are
displaying a collection of files,
like browser views and list views.
Or to be used as file handles,
that is when the user will want to
interact with your document as a file,
like clicking on it, dragging it,
and stuff like that.
So let's get a bit technical now and see
how you can get and display thumbnails.
Well, first, you can use an API that
we've introduced in LeoPard.
It is a Quick Look API.
So this is a very simple
and synchronous API.
You just give a file URL and the size,
and it returns synchronously
a CG image ref.
And if you want to have
icons instead of thumbnails,
you can add this option
to the Options dictionary.
So this is a synchronous call.
So also we try to be as fast as we can.
Some generators,
some plugins may still take a
while to generate the thumbnail.
So don't call this on your main thread
because it will be a bad user experience.
You have also another solution that is
using the ImageBrowser from ImageKit.
So the ImageBrowser is a
view that draws images,
but can also be used to browse
files and display thumbnails.
So to have thumbnails
in the Image browser,
you should use the Quick Look path
representation type.
And for more information,
I invite you to watch
the ImageKit session.
So this is actually a
good solution for you.
This may be a good solution for you.
For several reasons.
Well, first, for performance reason,
because we worked hard with the
ImageKit people to have a very
efficient way to get thumbnails.
And also for you, it's very easy.
It's a very easy solution.
So we will see that later.
So now that we've seen how
to get thumbnails and icons,
we'll see how to get
and display previews.
So previews are more accurate
representation of your documents.
They are richer and more dynamic.
So users can see several
pages of your documents.
It can have sound.
It can scrub in movies, stuff like that.
And previews are available
through the Preview Panel.
So I suppose you've seen the badge.
The Preview Panel APIs are
new in Snow Leap Part.
So how do you actually
use a preview panel?
Well, first, you have to import quarts
and link against quarts.
And the preview panel is
available as a singleton,
a shared preview panel.
Then the first thing you want
to do is to open and close it.
So the preview panel is
just a regular NS panel.
So you just use NS Window APIs to
open and close it.
And you may additionally want to
open it directly in full screen,
so we have other APIs to do that,
that are the same as
you can find on NSView.
So then,
when you have the preview panel open,
you want to fill it with contents.
So the preview panel is using a
data source model that is quite
standard and similar to what you
would find in the image browser,
for instance, but also in table views
and other collection views.
So you just return the number of items
you want to display in the preview panel,
and then you return the item
for the specified index.
So we will see later what is an item.
Additionally,
you can implement some delegate
methods to add polish to
your Quick Look experience.
For example, the zooming effect is quite
important because it gives
a good feedback to the user.
And also you can provide us with an image
to make a crossfade to the preview panel
to have an even smoother transition.
What are these items?
Well, they can simply be NSURLs or,
and that's more interesting,
they can be your own objects,
providing they implement the
actual preview item protocol.
So say you already have items on
your model that represent files,
and you want to display
them in the Preview panel.
So just by making sure they
implement this protocol,
you can directly give your
items to the preview panel.
So the advantage is
that in all callbacks,
you would get your item,
so it may be easier for you to
retrieve the requested information.
An important aspect of the
preview panel is that its
content depends on its context.
So, for example,
if the main window is changing,
The preview panel has to reflect the new
selected item in the new main window.
So the rule is that the Preview
Panel always displays the
selected item in the main window.
So how does it work?
When we see that the
responder chain is changing,
we first try to find a controller that
is willing to control the preview panel.
So we do that by walking
through the responder chain.
And we select the first object
that responds yes to this method.
Typically,
this would be your window controller.
So then once we have this controller,
we tell it that it will begin
to control the preview panel.
So it receives this method,
and that's where it's supposed
to set up the preview panel,
like setting the delegate,
the data source,
and call reload data on it.
And then,
when the ownership of the preview
panel is given to another object,
we tell the previous controller
that it no longer has
control on the preview panel.
So we send this method.
So you should be aware that you can do,
you can call some stuff on
the preview panel only between
the begin and end calls,
and you are not allowed to do
anything not between these two calls.
So let's see a bit more.
Let's see how Event Handling is
working on the Preview panel.
Well, first we have standard shortcuts
to open the Quick Look panel.
So it's Command-Y.
And additionally,
if it fits well in your application,
you can use the space bar
to toggle the preview panel.
Also, you can add the Option key to
go directly to full screen.
So once your preview panel is open,
it's a key window,
so events are routed directly to it,
and obviously your view underneath
is not getting any events.
So if you want to still be able
to handle events by yourself,
you can implement this delegate method.
So typically we use that to be
able to navigate in your view
while the preview panel is open.
So what you do is just implement this
and return yes if you handled the event,
and no if you want the preview
panel to handle it by itself.
Use this mechanism and don't give
key to your main window because
that's not the way to do it.
So we'll see a little
bit more in details.
So we'll first see how to use the
image browser to display thumbnails,
and then we'll see how
to use the preview panel,
so how to open and close it,
track the selection,
and add the zoom effect.
So can we switch to the demo machine,
please?
So here I have a very simple application,
TotalWinLaunch.
And it just displays a collection
of files in a window using the
image browser from ImageKit,
so I can zoom.
So it's very easy with ImageKit to
display a collection of files,
but we just have icons,
so it's kind of boring.
So the first thing we want to do is
to have thumbnails instead of icons.
So in my items that I use in the
data source for the image browser,
I'm just changing the image
representation type to use Quick Look.
I run it again, and boom,
I have all my thumbnails.
So as you can see, we can zoom and still
have beautiful thumbnails.
So when you write your plugin,
keep in mind that the thumbnails may
be displayed at quite high resolutions.
So next thing we want to do is to
add support for the preview panel.
So let's do that.
So we have some manual attempts
that are hooked to these methods.
So the first thing we want to do
is to toggle the preview panel.
I just uncommended.
And also we want to add
support for the spacebar.
So I just uncomment that too.
So what it does, it's very simple.
Just open the Preview
Panel if it's not visible,
or close it if it is.
So let's run now.
And if I use--
Open the Quick Look panel.
So it opens,
but obviously it's empty because
we didn't set any data source.
The next thing we want to do is implement
the controller method that we've seen.
So here, so I am in my document.
So it's in the responder chain,
and we obviously accept to be
controlling the preview panel.
In the Begin Preview
Panel Control method,
we set ourselves as the delegate and
the data source of the preview panel,
and then we tell the preview
panel to reload its data.
And in the end call,
we just make sure to remove ourselves
from the delegate and data source.
So next, what we want to do is
implement the data source.
This is a very simple data source.
So first, we retrieve the selected
items as an array.
So these are the same items that we use
in the data source for the image browser,
but we made sure to implement the
True Health Preview Item Protocol.
So we just return the number
of items in this array,
and then return the item
in the specified index.
So if I run now--
And press the space bar.
You can see that the preview panel is
correctly displaying the selected item.
So one interesting thing to see
is that if I have two windows,
And with two different items,
selected items in the windows,
if I switch between the two windows,
you can see the preview panel
correctly reflects the change.
But we are still missing some things,
like if I'm in the same window
and I change the selection,
the preview panel does
not update its content.
So that's the next thing we want to do.
So you have to tell the preview
panel to reload its data when the
selection is changing in your view.
So in our example,
we use this delegate method
from the ImageBrowser.
So the first thing we want to do
is to check that we are the current
controller for the preview panel.
And then we just call reload data on it.
So if I run the application again,
make that a little smaller.
And if I change the selection,
so the preview panel correctly
displays the selected item.
But we are not totally done yet,
because as you see,
we have no transition.
And also, when the Preview panel is open,
if I try to use the arrow keys,
Well, nothing happens.
So we will fix these
using delegate methods.
So this first delegate method
is to have a zooming effect.
So it's pretty simple.
First thing you want to do is to get
the frame using the image browser APIs.
When you have the frame,
you have to convert it to screen
coordinates and return that.
And the other method simply forwards the
keyed-down events to the image browser.
So if I run it again,
we can see we have a nice zoom effect.
If I use the arrow keys,
this time it works correctly.
And the new selected item
is correctly previewed.
So we are done with our little demo.
We can go back to the slides.
So to recap what you need to do to
add support for the preview panel.
Well, the first thing, obviously,
you want to import and link
again the Quartz framework.
Then you need to add calls to open
and close the preview panel using
the standard shortcuts that we have.
Then you need to implement the
controller methods and the data source.
Also, don't forget to tell the preview
panel to reload its data when the
selection is changing in your view.
And additionally,
but it's highly recommended,
you can implement some delegate
methods to add polish to
your Quick Look experience.
So to conclude this presentation,
I will call Jean-Pierre on stage.
Thank you, Julien.
So the first, Julien showed you how to
write a Quick Look plugin,
and the second,
Julien showed you how to use
Quick Look in your application.
It's important that you write a
Quick Look plugin so that your
documents can be beautiful everywhere.
In the Finder, in Mail, in iCal,
and in all the applications
that are going to be using
Quick Look in the future.
Please polish your thumbnails.
They need to look absolutely fantastic.
Also focus on performance.
You want to make sure that
they are generated really,
really, really fast.
Now, we also want you to use
Quick Look in your application,
of course,
so that you can show all types of
documents within your application with
nice thumbnails and nice previews.
So where to get help?
You can find documentation.
Our current documentation
online is Leopard documentation.
We are working on updating
it for Snow Leopard.
Our header files also contain
quite a bit of information.
We have a public mailing list.
So remember,
this is a public mailing list,
so you should only be asking
questions about the Leopard API.
You're welcome to ask us questions,
and we'll answer as soon as we can.
You can also attend the
Spotlight and Quick Look Lab.
We will all be there
answering your questions.
This is tomorrow at 5:00 p.m.
You can watch the ImageKit session,
session 735,
if you want to learn more about
the ImageKit image browser.
And if you have any
other type of questions,
you can contact our sharing
technologies evangelist,
Matt Drench.
And of course, you can find us during the
conference and come and talk to us.
We'll be tomorrow night at the little
party at the Yerba Buena Garden,
and we'll be around the
show during the week.
Thank you for coming,
and have fun with Quick Look.